doc/source/user/index.rst, before:

==========
User Guide
==========

Shares are file storage that you provide access to instances. You can allow
access to a share to a running instance or deny access to a share and allow
access to it to another instance at any time. You can also delete a share.
You can create snapshot from a share if the driver supports it. Only
administrative users can create share types.

Create a share
--------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Share Name`: Specify a name for the share.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   share.

   :guilabel:`Share Type`: Choose a share type.

   :guilabel:`Size (GB)`: The size of the share in gibibytes (GiB).

   :guilabel:`Share Protocol`: Select NFS, CIFS, GlusterFS, or HDFS.

   :guilabel:`Share Network`: Choose a share network.

   :guilabel:`Metadata`: Enter metadata for the share creation if needed.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share`.

The dashboard shows the share on the :guilabel:`Shares` tab.

Delete a share
--------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Select the check boxes for the shares that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Shares` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Allow access
------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to allow access and choose
   :guilabel:`Manage Rules` from Actions.

#. Click :guilabel:`Add rule`.

   :guilabel:`Access Type`: Choose ip, user, or cert.

   :guilabel:`Access Level`: Choose read-write or read-only.

   :guilabel:`Access To`: Fill in Access To field.

#. Click :guilabel:`Add Rule`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Deny access
-----------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to deny access and choose
   :guilabel:`Manage Rules` from Actions.

#. Choose the rule you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete rule` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share metadata
-------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Share Metadata` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Metadata`: To add share metadata, use key=value. To unset
   metadata, use key.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share Metadata`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share
----------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose :guilabel:`Edit Share` from
   Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Share Name`: Enter a new share name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Resize share
------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose :guilabel:`Resize Share`
   from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`New Size (GB)`: Enter new size. It can be increased or decreased
   from the original size. The size of the share cannot be lower than the size
   of the data stored in the share.
   
   If increased, the size of the share will be extended.
   If decreased, the size of the share will be shrinked.

#. Click :guilabel:`Resize Share`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Create share network
--------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share Network`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Name`: Specify a name for the share network.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   share network.

   :guilabel:`Neutron Net`: Choose a neutron network.

   :guilabel:`Neutron Subnet`: Choose a neutron subnet.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share Network`.

The dashboard shows the share network on the :guilabel:`Share Networks` tab.

Delete a share network
----------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Select the check boxes for the share networks that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Share Networks` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share network
------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Go to the share network that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Share Network` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Name`: Enter a new share network name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share Network`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Create security service
-----------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Security Service`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Name`: Specify a name for the security service.

   :guilabel:`DNS IP`: Enter the DNS IP address.

   :guilabel:`Server`: Enter the server name.

   :guilabel:`Domain`: Enter the domain name.

   :guilabel:`User`: Enter the user name.

   :guilabel:`Password`: Enter the password.

   :guilabel:`Confirm Password`: Enter the password again to confirm.

   :guilabel:`Type`: Choose the type from Active Directory, LDAP, or Kerberos.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   security service.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Security Service`.

The dashboard shows the security service on the :guilabel:`Security Services`
tab.

Delete a security service
-------------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Select the check boxes for the security services that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Security Services` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit security service
---------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Go to the security service that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Security Service` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Name`: Enter a new security service name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Security Service`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Commit message:

API v2.45, adds metadata support to access rules
Added access metadata for share access and also introduced the GET /share-access-rules API.
The prior API to retrieve access rules will not work with API version >=2.45

Closes-Bug: #1920687
Change-Id: Iec3a3fad5e2bdf854f04ae974248d899f90bd894

doc/source/user/index.rst, after:

==========
User Guide
==========

Shares are file storage that you provide access to instances. You can allow
access to a share to a running instance or deny access to a share and allow
access to it to another instance at any time. You can also delete a share.
You can create snapshot from a share if the driver supports it. Only
administrative users can create share types.

Create a share
--------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Share Name`: Specify a name for the share.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   share.

   :guilabel:`Share Type`: Choose a share type.

   :guilabel:`Size (GB)`: The size of the share in gibibytes (GiB).

   :guilabel:`Share Protocol`: Select NFS, CIFS, GlusterFS, or HDFS.

   :guilabel:`Share Network`: Choose a share network.

   :guilabel:`Metadata`: Enter metadata for the share creation if needed.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share`.

The dashboard shows the share on the :guilabel:`Shares` tab.

Delete a share
--------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Select the check boxes for the shares that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Shares` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Allow access
------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to allow access and choose
   :guilabel:`Manage Rules` from Actions.

#. Click :guilabel:`Add rule`.

   :guilabel:`Access Type`: Choose ip, user, or cert.

   :guilabel:`Access Level`: Choose read-write or read-only.

   :guilabel:`Access To`: Fill in Access To field.

#. Click :guilabel:`Add Rule`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Deny access
-----------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to deny access and choose
   :guilabel:`Manage Rules` from Actions.

#. Choose the rule you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete rule` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share access metadata
--------------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to deny access and choose
   :guilabel:`Manage Rules` from Actions.

#. Choose the rule you want to edit.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Rule Metadata`: To add share access metadata, use key=value.
To unset metadata, use key.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share metadata
-------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Share Metadata` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Metadata`: To add share metadata, use key=value. To unset
   metadata, use key.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share Metadata`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share
----------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose :guilabel:`Edit Share` from
   Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Share Name`: Enter a new share name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Resize share
------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, and click :guilabel:`Shares`.

#. Go to the share that you want to edit and choose :guilabel:`Resize Share`
   from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`New Size (GB)`: Enter new size. It can be increased or decreased
   from the original size. The size of the share cannot be lower than the size
   of the data stored in the share.
   
   If increased, the size of the share will be extended.
   If decreased, the size of the share will be shrinked.

#. Click :guilabel:`Resize Share`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Create share network
--------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share Network`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Name`: Specify a name for the share network.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   share network.

   :guilabel:`Neutron Net`: Choose a neutron network.

   :guilabel:`Neutron Subnet`: Choose a neutron subnet.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Share Network`.

The dashboard shows the share network on the :guilabel:`Share Networks` tab.

Delete a share network
----------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Select the check boxes for the share networks that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Share Networks` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit share network
------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Share Networks`.

#. Go to the share network that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Share Network` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Name`: Enter a new share network name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Share Network`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Create security service
-----------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Security Service`.

   In the dialog box that opens, enter or select the following values.

   :guilabel:`Name`: Specify a name for the security service.

   :guilabel:`DNS IP`: Enter the DNS IP address.

   :guilabel:`Server`: Enter the server name.

   :guilabel:`Domain`: Enter the domain name.

   :guilabel:`User`: Enter the user name.

   :guilabel:`Password`: Enter the password.

   :guilabel:`Confirm Password`: Enter the password again to confirm.

   :guilabel:`Type`: Choose the type from Active Directory, LDAP, or Kerberos.

   :guilabel:`Description`: Optionally, provide a brief description for the
   security service.

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Security Service`.

The dashboard shows the security service on the :guilabel:`Security Services`
tab.

Delete a security service
-------------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`, and
   click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Select the check boxes for the security services that you want to delete.

#. Click :guilabel:`Delete Security Services` and confirm your choice.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.

Edit security service
---------------------

#. Log in to the dashboard, choose a project, click :guilabel:`Shares`,
   and click :guilabel:`Security Services`.

#. Go to the security service that you want to edit and choose
   :guilabel:`Edit Security Service` from Actions.

#. :guilabel:`Name`: Enter a new security service name.

#. :guilabel:`Description`: Enter a new description.

#. Click :guilabel:`Edit Security Service`.

   A message indicates whether the action was successful.
